Welcome back everyone.
So in the last lesson we learned about using our provider as well as our consumer when it comes to using
context.
We also learned a little bit about leveraging local state in order to propagate changes into our context
provider.
So our consumers can get a dynamically changing value.
However in the next two lesson we are going to start exploring some more complex versions on patterns
of how to use context.
In this one we're going to talk about how we can actually replace our toggle hidden inside of a higher
level component while passing the actual function that toggles the context value itself in the children
of that component.
So we'll see what that looks like with this header component and the cart icon component.
The reason why is because our cart icon component right now is what toggles the carts hidden value inside
of our redux.
So we want to replace and replicate this exact same process except using the context API and as a springboard
we're going to take the concepts that we learned in today's lesson and apply them into a much larger
higher order component style of building out a bigger provider in order to better understand other more
complicated patterns we can use with context but let's start with something more basic.
All we want to do in this lesson is have our hidden value moved into our cart context and that cart
context we have the built so let's first build a cart context so inside of your source and contexts
I want you to make a new folder called cart an inside of cart.
You're going to make a new cart Doc contexts dot J.S. now the actual cart context is going to be the
same thing that we've done so far with all of our other contexts.
We are going to import create context from react and then what we're going to say is that cart.
Context is equal to create context except now what we're going to instantiate as the default value is
an object because we need to set both a value that we want the context to hold but also the function
that will end up updating that value.
So in our case we're trying to set a cart hidden value so we'll just call it hidden and by default it
will be false or sorry actually by default it's true because the cart is hidden by default after we
have this we need to actually create the function that will toggle the hit.
But here we only want a default value for that toggle we don't actually want to write the function yet
because the function is going to be defined inside of a components local state the same reason that
we had to do it with our user context is the same reason why we have to do it with our cart context
because the parent component we need to leverage it's local state changes in order for these changes
to propagate into our context I'll talk about this more once we actually see it just so that everyone
fully understands what it is that we're trying to do but here we're gonna say toggle hidden is equal
to some anonymous function that does nothing.
And the reason we want to do this is because the default value of a toggle hidden should be an empty
function if we ever invoke this function from the context and there is no other function defined like
there's no new function defined for toggle hidden we don't want an error to be thrown because if the
default value of this is null you cannot invoke a null object so we're gonna put an empty function whenever
we need to use a function.
Now what we'll do is we will export this out as the default value and then we're going to pull this
into our header component so inside of our header component simply import in that new context that we
made.
So our cart context
and now that you have the cart context we're going to need to leverage our local state in order to actually
propagate changes into that car context value the same way that we did it with our app.
J.S. when we had to create a set state for current user.
So what we'll do here is we will instantiate our values using the use state hook and what we want to
do is we want to store that hidden value on our local state of our header component.
And the reason why we want to do this is because the car icon is a child of this component.
Therefore we need the state changes to be in the parent as you might have noticed at this point after
all of these hierarchy component lessons we've done.
Changes need to propagate from top down.
So let me actually look at this diagram.
So we have a better understanding of it let's say this is our header component and let's say this is
our car icon component and this is our cart dropdown component.
This cart dropdown relies on the hidden context value that we just set in order for it to either display
or hide the display or hide occurs at this component level the header so the header is actually the
component that needs to have access to the context provider because we need to put the value of whether
or not it's hidden or not at some level where we can both access setting it from one of its children
which is our cart icon but also the value that will end up being which is the hidden boolean value inside
of this cart dropdown.
So by putting it in the common ancestor we need to leverage this components local state changes whenever
we call set state which will propagate and set the new value in both the consumer but also in the provider.
Now if that sounds confusing just watch me code this out and then hopefully it'll make more sense because
this part is definitely a little bit more confusing when you're looking at react for the first time.
This context is really a much greater feature when you have a really solid understanding of how javascript
actually renders and updates its components.
So what we need to do here is we need to leverage local state and we're going to get both a hidden value
and a toggle hidden value from you state and then setting the default value to whatever it was that
our default value was in our cart context.
So here we want to say that it's true now instead of toggle hidden actually this is set hidden and we
are now no longer going to leverage passing it in through redux.
So just remove this and we'll remove those redux bindings later.
The reason why we need this set hidden value is because we're going to write our own toggle hidden value
here and this is going to be a function that when called will call set hidden where we set the value
to the opposite of the current hidden value.
So as we know with you state we instantiate a new local state where the hidden property is equal to
true and then we have access to this set hidden function that allows us to set this property.
So what we'll do is we'll declare this new function which is an anonymous function that whenever it
gets called will just simply set the hidden value to the opposite value of what it currently is.
Very simple but this toggle a hidden function is what we're going to pass as the new toggle hidden value
inside of this car context.
And because we need access to that function inside of car icon which will be the component that ends
up consuming our car context that we're instantiating we are going to wrap this cart icon component
inside of our new context.
Now you might be wondering doesn't the header component right here also need to leverage that hidden
property on our car context because this hidden property is what it is we're trying to set in the first
place.
And this is where we actually leverage it in order to hide or show the card dropdown.
Well you would be correct but instead of using the actual context value we need to remember that what
we're doing is we are going to end up passing this local state hidden value into the context which will
then be consumed inside of the application.
So what we're really sharing is actually the local state value of toggle hidden and hidden inside of
the header component around our application.
And by doing so we're leveraging local state changes inside of the header component in order to propagate
those changes into the context so that anyone that needs it is able to do so.
That's the whole point with setting up a function that allows us to set context inside of this header
component anywhere in the application.
You can almost see it as if the context is just the vehicle that allows us to transfer both this toggle
hidden function and this hidden value on our local state around any of the children inside of the header
component.
So no matter how many children nested deep any component is inside of our header as long as we wrap
it with the appropriate car provider then we're able to access the context value where we're storing
both the hidden value and the toggle hidden value in the local state of our header component.
So if that's so confusing let's actually see it in action.
So our car icon needs to access are toggle cart hit at so are going to do is we're going to wrap it
with our cart context dot provider
and the value key that we're gonna pass in is going to be an object where the value of hidden will go
to hidden and the value of toggle hidden will go to our toggle hidden.
So we're replacing these two values here with our local state values for hidden and toggle hidden and
now inside of a card icon we can access this toggle hidden function that we defined here in order to
set the hidden of local state inside of header and we do that by consuming our car icon component so
what we'll say is we need the use context hook inside of card icon.
And then we also need to import in our cart context
and now we just convert this functional component to have a explicit return and we'll say const toggle
hidden which is what we're de structuring off is going to be equal to use context of our cart context.
Now let's get rid of this redux binding that we have here because we're not using redux anymore.
We are now using our context API
now inside of our cart icon.
We are pulling in the toggle hidden value and the toggle hidden value of our car.
Context is being set as the toggle hidden function of our header component because we passed that in
along with our hidden value into our car context provider so if that makes sense you'll understand what
it is that we really did here.
Because what we're doing is we're just trying to pass access to this function inside of a context so
we can use it anywhere in the application that's nested inside of this provider.
So let's actually see whether or not it works.
So now if we hit this we'll see that we're Toggling it and we're not firing that redux action anymore
because now we're leveraging our context API and that new toggle hidden function that we wrote so hopefully
that makes sense because we are going to extrapolate on this concept pretty deeply in order for us to
pass around any of the toggle values into our application if we want to set values inside of our context.
We're going to have to leverage a very similar pattern.
We need a component at a very high parent level that has access to local state and then we're going
to pass those functions and those local state values into the context which we can then share across
the application so that those components can pull in those functions and those values and use them freely.
That's the whole idea with this context pattern so with this let's actually move on to a more advanced
context provider pattern if this is confusing we'll definitely take a deeper look at it in the next
lesson as well.
So don't worry so I'll see you in the next lesson.